README.md, before:

# FaceLabellingExportLrPlugin

## About
This is a plug-in for Adobe Lightroom (Classic), to export images with face labelling from EXIF metadata
* Plug-in name: FaceLabellingExport.lrplugin
* Download from: https://github.com/colin0brass/FaceLabellingExportLrPlugin

## Status
Currently this is an early-life prototype with various known and suspected limitations.

It works for me, on my Mac computer, but I have not yet given it any extensive robustness testing, and have not 
tested it on Windows at all yet

I strongly advise you only try this if you are comfortable with computing and scripting, and prepared for some 
failures and debug.

For the less intrepid, I do plan to do further testing and development, though I can't really put a timescale on it 
due to real-world committments.

## Quick-Start Notes
Abbreviated instructions:
1. Please note this is an early prototype, so please only try if you are comfortable with computing and likely issues
2. Install helper apps: imagemagick (http://www.imagemagick.org) and exiftool (https://exiftool.org)
3. Download this plug-in & install in Lightroom Plug-in Manager
4. Configure this plug-in in Lightroom Plug-in Manager: ensure helper apps are found
5. Select some photos in Lightroom, "Export..."
6. Select "Export to:" "Face Labelling Export"; check the export options; "Export"
7. Browse to your export location and hopefully you will have some new files there

## Longer Notes and Instructions
### Helper apps
This plug-in requires the following separate helper tools to be installed:
* imagemagick: http://www.imagemagick.org
* exiftool: https://exiftool.org

I have tried including a copy of ExifTool inside this plug-in, however I have not yet tested it on different platforms 
so it might prove not be useful or robust.

On Mac the operating system requires binaries to be confirmed safe before use. To do this, open the plug-in folder 
in Finder (e.g. right click on it and 'Show Package Contents), browse to helper app file (e.g. Mac/ExifTool/exiftool), 
and 'open' it (e.g. right click and select 'Open') to prompt the OS to look at it and ask you if you trust it.

I did try to include imagemagick inside this plug-in, however it didn't work, so that definitely needs to be separately
downloaded and installed.

### Plug-in installation
Download and unzip (if zipped) this plug-in to a suitable location on your computer.
* e.g. from github, see "Code" drop-down, and select "Download ZIP"

Add the plug-in into Lightroom Classic
* In Lightroom, go to File -> Plug-in Manager
* From there, "Add", select the new plug-in and "Add Plug-in"

### Plug-in configuration
Once the plug-in is installed, please check its configuration in Plug-in Manager.
See "Overall Settings", where the paths to the helper apps are configured.

It will have a go at choosing default paths for Mac vs Windows, however they might well be wrong for your computer 
setup, so please do check and update as necessary.

Please check if it says 'Found' for all of the helper apps, and if not, ensure they are installed and that the 
paths are correct.

Export settings in Export dialog box are persistent between sessions (saved during 'Export' operation)

### Export
Once the plug-in is installed and configured (as above), select some photos from your libary in Lightroom (Classic) 
and click 'Export...".

Select "Face Labelling Export" from the "Export To:" option at the top of the screen.

I have not done any testing of the standard Export "Add to this catalog" option. I suspect I might try to remove it 
in future.

Check the export location, choose your labelling options (e.g. whether to draw the text, and which boxes to draw)
and finally click "Export"

# Limitations - Known & Likely
* Not yet tested on Windows (only Mac), therefore it is highly likely to be broken
* Only tested with jpeg images, therefore other file types are likely not to work
* Not specifically tested with rotated images, therefore behaviour is probably wrong
* Not tested with a wide range of images, types and exif labelling, therefore probably limitations

## Potential future improvements
* Support & test wider range of image file & exif formats
* Built-in plug-in upgrade mechanism
* Deploy helper-apps directly in plug-in distribution instead of requiring separate installation (ExifTool & ImageMagick)

## Test platform
I have used the following for my (limited) testing so far:

### Mac
* iMac (2017), Intel Core i5; 16GB RAM
* MacOS Catalina, v10.15.6
* Lightroom Classic v9.4
* ImageMagick 7.0.10-25
* ExifTool 12.01

Commit message:

Added example image to README

README.md, after:

# FaceLabellingExportLrPlugin

## About
This is a plug-in for Adobe Lightroom (Classic), to export images with face labelling from EXIF metadata
* Plug-in name: FaceLabellingExport.lrplugin
* Download from: https://github.com/colin0brass/FaceLabellingExportLrPlugin

## Illustration of Purpose
The image below is deliberately obfuscated (confidential details hidden by fading image and randomising text), however
hopefully gives an idea of the purpose of this plug-in.

The face region outline boxes are optional and would typically be left disabled in real use, however I added them
in this example since I feel they help to show what is going on for this highly faded-out image.
![obfuscated example image](https://github.com/colin0brass/FaceLabellingExportLrPlugin/blob/master/obfuscated_label_test.jpg)

The plug-in did the following:
1. Exported image file from Lightroom to specified location
2. Used existing exif metadata in the image file to locate the face regions
3. Created name label text for all the faces and devised where to position on the image and how to format them
4. Annotated the labels on the image and saved as update to the exported file

## Status
Currently this is an early-life prototype with various known and suspected limitations.

It works for me, on my Mac computer, but I have not yet given it any extensive robustness testing, and have not 
tested it on Windows at all yet

I strongly advise you only try this if you are comfortable with computing and scripting, and prepared for some 
failures and debug.

For the less intrepid, I do plan to do further testing and development, though I can't really put a timescale on it 
due to real-world committments.

## Quick-Start Notes
Abbreviated instructions:
1. Please note this is an early prototype, so please only try if you are comfortable with computing and likely issues
2. Install helper apps: imagemagick (http://www.imagemagick.org) and exiftool (https://exiftool.org)
3. Download this plug-in & install in Lightroom Plug-in Manager
4. Configure this plug-in in Lightroom Plug-in Manager: ensure helper apps are found
5. Select some photos in Lightroom, "Export..."
6. Select "Export to:" "Face Labelling Export"; check the export options; "Export"
7. Browse to your export location and hopefully you will have some new files there

## Longer Notes and Instructions
### Helper apps
This plug-in requires the following separate helper tools to be installed:
* imagemagick: http://www.imagemagick.org
* exiftool: https://exiftool.org

I have tried including a copy of ExifTool inside this plug-in, however I have not yet tested it on different platforms 
so it might prove not be useful or robust.

On Mac the operating system requires binaries to be confirmed safe before use. To do this, open the plug-in folder 
in Finder (e.g. right click on it and 'Show Package Contents), browse to helper app file (e.g. Mac/ExifTool/exiftool), 
and 'open' it (e.g. right click and select 'Open') to prompt the OS to look at it and ask you if you trust it.

I did try to include imagemagick inside this plug-in, however it didn't work, so that definitely needs to be separately
downloaded and installed.

### Plug-in installation
Download and unzip (if zipped) this plug-in to a suitable location on your computer.
* e.g. from github, see "Code" drop-down, and select "Download ZIP"

Add the plug-in into Lightroom Classic
* In Lightroom, go to File -> Plug-in Manager
* From there, "Add", select the new plug-in and "Add Plug-in"

### Plug-in configuration
Once the plug-in is installed, please check its configuration in Plug-in Manager.
See "Overall Settings", where the paths to the helper apps are configured.

It will have a go at choosing default paths for Mac vs Windows, however they might well be wrong for your computer 
setup, so please do check and update as necessary.

Please check if it says 'Found' for all of the helper apps, and if not, ensure they are installed and that the 
paths are correct.

Export settings in Export dialog box are persistent between sessions (saved during 'Export' operation)

### Export
Once the plug-in is installed and configured (as above), select some photos from your libary in Lightroom (Classic) 
and click 'Export...".

Select "Face Labelling Export" from the "Export To:" option at the top of the screen.

I have not done any testing of the standard Export "Add to this catalog" option. I suspect I might try to remove it 
in future.

Check the export location, choose your labelling options (e.g. whether to draw the text, and which boxes to draw)
and finally click "Export"

# Limitations - Known & Likely
* Not yet tested on Windows (only Mac), therefore it is highly likely to be broken
* Only tested with jpeg images, therefore other file types are likely not to work
* Not specifically tested with rotated images, therefore behaviour is probably wrong
* Not tested with a wide range of images, types and exif labelling, therefore probably limitations

## Potential future improvements
* Support & test wider range of image file & exif formats
* Built-in plug-in upgrade mechanism
* Deploy helper-apps directly in plug-in distribution instead of requiring separate installation (ExifTool & ImageMagick)

## Test platform
I have used the following for my (limited) testing so far:

### Mac
* iMac (2017), Intel Core i5; 16GB RAM
* MacOS Catalina, v10.15.6
* Lightroom Classic v9.4
* ImageMagick 7.0.10-25
* ExifTool 12.01
